{"id":"doi_dedup___::1b3895fc0e257ff2023e0c36b56e467e","abstract":"<jats:p>The penetration of wearable devices in our daily lives is unstoppable. Although they are very popular, so far, these elements provide a limited range of services that are mostly focused on monitoring tasks such as fitness, activity, or health tracking. Besides, given their hardware and power constraints, wearable units are dependent on a master device, e.g., a smartphone, to make decisions or send the collected data to the cloud. However, a new wave of both communication and artificial intelligence (AI)-based technologies fuels the evolution of wearables to an upper level. Concretely, they are the low-power wide-area network (LPWAN) and tiny machine-learning (TinyML) technologies. This paper reviews and discusses these solutions, and explores the major implications and challenges of this technological transformation. Finally, the results of an experimental study are presented, analyzing (i) the long-range connectivity gained by a wearable device in a university campus scenario, thanks to the integration of LPWAN communications, and (ii) how complex the intelligence embedded in this wearable unit can be. This study shows the interesting characteristics brought by these state-of-the-art paradigms, concluding that a wide variety of novel services and applications will be supported by the next generation of wearables.</jats:p>"}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::1f554e63665283ce04e1103f06c46ba0","abstract":"In order to overcome the main disadvantages of conventional cancer therapies, which prove to be inadequate because of their lack of selectivity, the development of targeted delivery systems is one of the main focuses in anticancer research. It is repeatedly shown that decorating the surface of nanocarriers with high-affinity targeting ligands, such as peptides or small molecules, is an effective way to selectively deliver therapeutics by enhancing their specific cellular uptake via the binding between a specific receptor and the nanosystems. Nowadays, the need of finding new potential biological targets with a high endocytic efficiency as well as a low tendency to mutate is urgent and, in this context, mannose and mannose-6-phosphate receptors appear promising to target anticancer drugs to cells where their expression is upregulated. Moreover, they open the path to encouraging applications in immune-based and gene therapies as well as in theragnostic purposes. In this work, the potential of mannose- and mannose-6-phosphate-targeted delivery systems in cancer therapy is discussed, emphasizing their broad application both in direct treatments against cancer cells with conventional chemotherapeutics or by gene therapy and also their encouraging capabilities in immunotherapy and diagnostics purposes."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::7cff61fb19542cac6196ec36419d2f57","abstract":"<jats:title>ABSTRACT</jats:title>           <jats:p>To evaluate the impact of immunodominance on CD8 T-cell properties, we compared the functional properties of dominant and subdominant populations in the response to lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). To improve functional discrimination, in addition to the usual tests of phenotype and function, we used a sensitive technique that allows the screening of all CD8 effector genes simultaneously in single cells. Surprisingly, these methods failed to reveal a major impact of clonal dominance in CD8 properties throughout the response. Aiming to increase clonal dominance, we examined high-frequency transferred P14 T-cell receptor transgenic (TCR Tg) cells. Under these conditions LCMV is cleared faster, and accordingly we found an accelerated response. However, when Tg and endogenous cells were studied in the same mice, where they should be subjected to the same antigen load, they showed overlapping properties, and the presence of P14 cells did not modify endogenous responses to other LCMV epitopes or a perturbed immunodominance hierarchy in the memory phase. Using allotype-labeled Tg cells, we found that during acute infection up to 80% downregulated their TCR and were undetectable by tetramer binding, and that tetramer-negative and tetramer-positive cells had very different features. Since Tg cells are not available to evaluate immune responses in humans and, in many cases, are not available from the mouse, the tetramer-based evaluation of early immune responses in most situations of high viremia may be incomplete and biased.</jats:p>"}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::625b7b8c7adea246d7c53c4d34b094df","abstract":"<jats:p> Background: Gender differences in late middle-age cognitive performance may be explained by differences in educational or occupational attainment rates, or gender-patterned returns of similar education and occupation to cognitive reserve. We tested these competing hypotheses in the historically highly gender unequal context of South Korea. Methods: Data came from the 2006 wave of the Korean Longitudinal Study of Aging. We included adults aged 45–65 years. Using quantile regression decompositions, we decomposed cognitive performance differences across quantiles into differences due to rates of educational and occupational attainment and differences due to divergent returns to those characteristics. Results: Gender-based cognitive performance differences across deciles were driven by differences in rates of educational and occupational attainment, while the returns to these characteristics were similar for both genders. Conclusions: Findings suggest that educational and occupational characteristics contribute to cognitive performance similarly in men and women, but discordant rates of these characteristics contribute to performance gaps. </jats:p>"}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::6d9881596dbd2daf16a1014400898a45","abstract":"Printed electronics is emerging as a new, large scale and cost effective technology that will be disruptive in fields such as energy harvesting, consumer electronics and medical sensors. The performance of printed electronic devices relies principally on the carrier mobility and molecular packing of the polymer semiconductor material. Unfortunately, the analysis of such materials is generally performed with destructive techniques, which are hard to make compatible with in situ measurements, and pose a great obstacle for the mass production of printed electronics devices. A rapid, in situ, non-destructive and low-cost testing method is needed. In this study, we demonstrate that nonlinear optical microscopy is a promising technique to achieve this goal. Using ultrashort laser pulses we stimulate two-photon absorption in a roll coated polymer semiconductor and map the resulting two-photon induced photoluminescence and second harmonic response. We show that, in our experimental conditions, it is possible to relate the total amount of photoluminescence detected to important material properties such as the charge carrier density and the molecular packing of the printed polymer material, all with a spatial resolution of 400 nm. Importantly, this technique can be extended to the real time mapping of the polymer semiconductor film, even during the printing process, in which the high printing speed poses the need for equally high acquisition rates."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::191303aed894b877fd26b067e28378af","abstract":"Optimal decision-making requires balancing fast but error-prone and more accurate but slower decisions through adjustments of decision thresholds. Here, we demonstrate two distinct correlates of such speed-accuracy adjustments by recording subthalamic nucleus (STN) activity and electroencephalography in 11 Parkinson’s disease patients during a perceptual decision-making task; STN low-frequency oscillatory (LFO) activity (2–8 Hz), coupled to activity at prefrontal electrode Fz, and STN beta activity (13–30 Hz) coupled to electrodes C3/C4 close to motor cortex. These two correlates differed not only in their cortical topography and spectral characteristics but also in the relative timing of recruitment and in their precise relationship with decision thresholds. Increases of STN LFO power preceding the response predicted increased thresholds only after accuracy instructions, while cue-induced reductions of STN beta power decreased thresholds irrespective of instructions. These findings indicate that distinct neural mechanisms determine whether a decision will be made in haste or with caution. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.21481.001"}
{"id":"pmid_dedup__::d5e9582556ed5a87fa142a1028d61ea6","abstract":"International audience; The enhancement of thermoelectric figure of merit ZT requires to either increase the power factor or reduce the phonon conductance, or even both. In graphene, the high phonon thermal conductivity is the main factor limiting the thermoelectric conversion. The common strategy to enhance ZT is therefore to introduce phonon scatterers to suppress the phonon conductance while retaining high electrical conductance and Seebeck coefficient. Although thermoelectric performance is eventually enhanced, all studies based on this strategy show a significant reduction of the electrical conductance. In this study we demonstrate that appropriate sources of disorder, including isotopes and vacancies at lowest electron density positions, can be used as phonon scatterers to reduce the phonon conductance in graphene ribbons without degrading the electrical conductance, particularly in the low-energy region which is the most important range for device operation. By means of atomistic calculations we show that the natural electronic properties of graphene ribbons can be fully preserved while their thermoelectric efficiency is strongly enhanced. For ribbons of width M = 5 dimer lines, room-temperature ZT is enhanced from less than 0.26 to more than 2.5. This study is likely to set the milestones of a new generation of nano-devices with dual electronic/thermoelectric functionalities."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::0825af00c0ba0176bf314998b9c78ba1","abstract":"Alzheimer&rsquo"}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::90372c68dc76745e3305173c4a05ce52","abstract":"Conventional MRI is frequently used during the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis but provides only little additional pathological information. Proton MRS (H-1-MRS), however, provides biochemical information on the lesion pathology by visualization of a spectrum of metabolites. In this study we aimed to better understand the changes in metabolite concentrations following demyelination of the white matter. Therefore, we used the cuprizone model, a wellestablished mouse model to mimic type III human multiple sclerosis demyelinating lesions. First, we identified CX(3)CL1/CX(3)CR1 signaling as a major regulator of microglial activity in the cuprizone mouse model. Compared with control groups (heterozygous CX(3)CR1(+/-) C57BL/6 mice and wild type CX3CR1(+/+) C57BL/6 mice), microgliosis, astrogliosis, oligodendrocyte cell death and demyelination were shown to be highly reduced or absent in CX3CR1(-/-) C57BL/6 mice. Second, we show that 1H-MRS metabolite spectra are different when comparing cuprizone-treated CX3CR1(-/-) mice showing mild demyelination with cuprizone-treated CX3CR1(+/+) mice showing severe demyelination and demyelination-associated inflammation. Following cuprizone treatment, CX3CR1(+/+) mice show a decrease in the Glu, tCho and tNAA concentrations as well as an increased Tau concentration. In contrast, following cuprizone treatment CX3CR1(-/-) mice only showed a decrease in tCho and tNAA concentrations. Therefore, H-1-MRS might possibly allow us to discriminate demyelination from demyelination-associated inflammation via changes in Tau and Glu concentration. In addition, the observed decrease in tCho concentration in cuprizoneinduced demyelinating lesions should be further explored as a possible diagnostic tool for the early identification of human MS type III lesions. Copyright (C) 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. This work was supported by research grants G.0136.11 and G.0130.11 (granted to ZB, AVdL and PP) of the Fund for Scientific Research - Flanders (FWO - Vlaanderen, Belgium) and in addition by an \\\"FWO - Krediet aan Navorsers\\\" grant of the Fund for Scientific Research - Flanders (FWO -Vlaanderen, Belgium, granted to MV); next, by a Methusalem research grant from the Flemish government (granted to ZB) and in part by funding received from the European Union's Seventh Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreement 278850 (INMiND) (granted to AVdL). Caroline Guglielmetti is holder of an IWT PhD grant (Institute for the Promotion of Innovation through Science and Technology in Flanders, IWT - Vlaanderen). Firat Kara is holder of an \\\"FWO - Postdoc\\\" grant of the Fund for Scientific Research - Flanders (FWO - Vlaanderen, Belgium). MRI equipment was funded by the Flemish Impulse funding for heavy scientific equipment (granted to AVdL)."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::4ad4d5ece6aaf11ba97755af219c1078","abstract":"<jats:p>Norovirus (NoV) causes about one-fifth of all cases of foodborne diseases and is a foremost cause of domestically acquired foodborne acute gastroenteritis and outbreaks. NoV infections are often associated with the consumption of contaminated fresh and ready-to-eat produce, fresh and frozen berries, raw/undercooked bivalve mollusks and products which become contaminated during handling. Despite many industrial efforts to control and prevent NoV contamination of foods, the prevalence of NoV in high-risk foodstuffs at retail is still significant. Although certain consumer behaviors may even increase the risk of virus transmission, interventions aiming at changing/implementing consumer habits may be considered as opportunities for risk mitigation. This review aims at providing an update on the progress made in characterizing the effect that consumer habits, which are most critical to prevent NoV transmission (food choice and hygiene, disinfection and cooking during food preparation), may have on reducing the risk of NoV infection. A better understanding of the options for NoV control and prevention may be translated into innovative educational, social or even technological tools targeting consumers with the objective of mitigating the risk of NoV transmission.</jats:p>"}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::7fb2ba42b2cccc4b6ed031045e5a0625","abstract":"The colonization of the land by streptophytes and their subsequent radiation is a major event in Earth history. We report a stepwise increase in the number of transcription factor (TF) families and subfamilies in Archaeplastida before the colonization of the land. The subsequent increase in TF number on land was through duplication within existing TF families and subfamilies. Almost all subfamilies of the Homeodomain (HD) and basic Helix-Loop-Helix (bHLH) had evolved before the radiation of extant land plant lineages from a common ancestor. We demonstrate that the evolution of these TF families independently followed similar trends in both plants and metazoans; almost all extant HD and bHLH subfamilies were present in the first land plants and in the last common ancestor of bilaterians. These findings reveal that the majority of innovation in plant and metazoan TF families occurred in the Precambrian before the Phanerozoic radiation of land plants and metazoans."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::2ab0cbba5d418e6fcaf6b8cd59167973","abstract":"International audience; Isolation of viral pathogens from clinical and/or animal samples has traditionally relied on either cell cultures or laboratory animal model systems. However, virus viability is notoriously susceptible to adverse conditions that may include inappropriate procedures for sample collection, storage temperature, support media and transportation. Using our recently described ISA method, we have developed a novel procedure to isolate infectious single-stranded positive-sense RNA viruses from clinical or animal samples. This approach, that we have now called \\\"ISA-lation\\\", exploits the capacity of viral cDNA subgenomic fragments to reassemble and produce infectious viral RNA in susceptible cells. Here, it was successfully used to rescue enterovirus, Chikungunya and Tick-borne encephalitis viruses from a variety of inactivated animal and human samples. ISA-lation represents an effective option to rescue infectious virus from clinical and/or animal samples that may have deteriorated during the collection and storage period, but also potentially overcomes logistic and administrative difficulties generated when complying with current health and safety and biosecu-rity guidelines associated with shipment of infectious viral material."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::404c046cd0fb17235f166afc1c29e81a","abstract":"A label-free ultrasensitive impedimetric biosensor with lectin immobilised on graphene oxide (GO) for the detection of glycoproteins from 1 aM is shown here. This is the first time a functional lectin biosensor with lectin directly immobilised on a graphene-based interface without any polymer modifier has been described. The study also shows that hydrophilic oxidative debris present on GO has a beneficial effect on the sensitivity of (8.46 - 0.20)% per decade for the lectin biosensor compared to the sensitivity of (4.52 - 0.23)% per decade for the lectin biosensor built up from GO with the oxidative debris washed out. Scopus"}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::170c5a4e93323bfac35cbb1eab4485fe","abstract":"Objective To determine whether detection of invasive cervical cancer by screening results in better prognosis or merely increases the lead time until death. Design Nationwide population based cohort study. Setting Sweden. Participants All 1230 women with cervical cancer diagnosed during 1999-2001 in Sweden prospectively followed up for an average of 8.5 years. Main outcome measures Cure proportions and five year relative survival ratios, stratified by screening history, mode of detection, age, histopathological type, and FIGO (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics) stage. Results In the screening ages, the cure proportion for women with screen detected invasive cancer was 92% (95% confidence interval 75% to 98%) and for symptomatic women was 66% (62% to 70%), a statistically significant difference in cure of 26% (16% to 36%). Among symptomatic women, the cure proportion was significantly higher for those who had been screened according to recommendations (interval cancers) than among those overdue for screening: difference in cure 14% (95% confidence interval 6% to 23%). Cure proportions were similar for all histopathological types except small cell carcinomas and were closely related to FIGO stage. A significantly higher cure proportion for screen detected cancers remained after adjustment for stage at diagnosis (difference 15%, 7% to 22%). Conclusions Screening is associated with improved cure of cervical cancer. Confounding cannot be ruled out, but the effect was not attributable to lead time bias and was larger than what is reflected by down-staging. Evaluations of screening programmes should consider the assessment of cure proportions."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::0a96ba3b4da9d2673d1b566bcac0d894","abstract":"Abstract Aims We tested the hypothesis that shortening of time‐to‐peak left ventricular pressure rise (Td) reflect resynchronization in an animal model and that Td measured in patients will be helpful to identify long‐term volumetric responders [end‐systolic volume (ESV) decrease >15%] in cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). Methods Td was analysed in an animal study (n = 12) of left bundle‐branch block (LBBB) with extensive instrumentation to detect left ventricular myocardial deformation, electrical activation, and pressures during pacing. The sum of electrical delays from the onset of pacing to four intracardiac electrodes formed a synchronicity index (SI). Pacing was performed at baseline, with LBBB, right and left ventricular pacing and finally with biventricular pacing (BIVP). We then studied Td at baseline and with BIVP in a clinical observational study in 45 patients during the implantation of CRT and followed up for up to 88 months. Results We found a strong relationship between Td and SI in the animals (R = 0.84, P < 0.01). Td and SI increased from narrow QRS at baseline (Td = 95 ± 2 ms, SI = 141 ± 8 ms) to LBBB (Td = 125 ± 2 ms, SI = 247 ± 9 ms, P < 0.01), and shortened with biventricular pacing (BIVP) (Td = 113 ± 2 ms and SI = 192 ± 7 ms, P < 0.01). Prolongation of Td was associated with more wasted deformation during the preejection period (R = 0.77, P < 0.01). Six patients increased ESV by 2.5 ± 18%, while 37 responders (85%) had a mean ESV decrease of 40 ± 15% after more than 6 months of follow‐up. Responders presented with a higher Td at baseline than non‐responders (163 ± 26 ms vs. 121 ± 19 ms, P < 0.01). Td decreased to 156 ± 16 ms (P = 0.02) with CRT in responders, while in non‐responders, Td increased to 148 ± 21 ms (P < 0.01). A decrease in Td with BIVP to values similar or below what was found at baseline accurately identified responders to therapy (AUC 0.98, P < 0.01). Td at baseline and change in Td from baseline was linear related to the decrease in ESV at follow‐up. All‐cause mortality was high among six non‐responders (n = 4), while no patients died in the responder group during follow‐up. Conclusions Prolongation of Td is associated with cardiac dyssynchrony and more wasted deformation during the preejection period. Shortening of a prolonged Td with CRT in patients accurately identifies volumetric responders to CRT with incremental value on top of current guidelines and practices. Thus, Td carries the potential to become a biomarker to predict long‐term volumetric response in CRT candidates."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::e3ffe2f938d3fc7eec241c78732e8fdf","abstract":"Aims The severity of coronary artery narrowing is a poor predictor of functional significance, in particular in intermediate coronary lesions (30–70% diameter narrowing). The aim of this work was to compare the performance of a quantitative hyperaemic myocardial blood flow (MBF) index derived from adenosine dynamic computed tomography perfusion (CTP) imaging with that of visual CT coronary angiography (CTCA) and semi-automatic quantitative CT (QCT) in the detection of functionally significant coronary lesions in patients with stable chest pain.  Methods and results CTCA and CTP were performed in 80 patients (210 analysable coronary vessels) referred to invasive coronary angiography (ICA). The MBF index (mL/100 mL/min) was computed using a model-based parametric deconvolution method. The diagnostic performance of the MBF index in detecting functionally significant coronary lesions was compared with visual CTCA and QCT. Coronary lesions with invasive fractional flow reserve of ≤0.75 were defined as functionally significant. The optimal cut-off value of the MBF index to detect functionally significant coronary lesions was 78 mL/100 mL/min. On a vessel-territory level, the MBF index had a larger area under the curve (0.95; 95% confidence interval [95% CI]: 0.92–0.98) compared with visual CTCA (0.85; 95% CI: 0.79–0.91) and QCT (0.89; 95% CI: 0.84–0.93) (both P -values <0.001). In the analysis restricted to intermediate coronary lesions, the specificity of visual CTCA (69%) and QCT (77%) could be improved by the subsequent use of the MBF index (89%).  Conclusion In this proof-of-principle study, the MBF index performed better than visual CTCA and QCT in the identification of functionally significant coronary lesions. The MBF index had additional value beyond CTCA anatomy in intermediate coronary lesions. This may have a potential to support patient management."}
{"id":"doi_dedup___::5e4074af28c4a255719f7a4c02b95b56","abstract":"Abstract Neural activity is essential for the maturation of sensory systems. In the rodent primary somatosensory cortex (S1), high extracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels during development impair neural transmission between the thalamus and cortical input layer IV (LIV). Rodent models of impaired 5-HT transporter (SERT) function show disruption in their topological organization of S1 and in the expression of activity-regulated genes essential for inhibitory cortical network formation. It remains unclear how such alterations affect the sensory information processing within cortical LIV. Using serotonin transporter knockout (Sert−/−) rats, we demonstrate that high extracellular serotonin levels are associated with impaired feedforward inhibition (FFI), fewer perisomatic inhibitory synapses, a depolarized GABA reversal potential and reduced expression of KCC2 transporters in juvenile animals. At the neural population level, reduced FFI increases the excitatory drive originating from LIV, facilitating evoked representations in the supragranular layers II/III. The behavioral consequence of these changes in network excitability is faster integration of the sensory information during whisker-based tactile navigation, as Sert−/− rats require fewer whisker contacts with tactile targets and perform object localization with faster reaction times. These results highlight the association of serotonergic homeostasis with formation and excitability of sensory cortical networks, and consequently with sensory perception."}
{"id":"pmid_dedup__::d0608285623332ab1358bc48dee79261","abstract":"Models of child primary health care vary across Europe. There are three categories, primary care paediatricians, general practitioner based, or mixed. This paper describes the metadata schema used in the profiling process of candidate data sources for appraisal for the Models of Child Health Appraised (MOCHA) project using the MOCHA International Research Opportunity Instrument (MIROI). The ten clinical indicators included: asthma, antibiotic stewardship, immunisation, rickets, diarrhea, epilepsy, depression, ADHD, enuresis and care of women during pregnancy. Our metadata allows us to identify data within included data sources concerning any of the 10 clinical indicators identified for comparative analysis within the MOCHA project. From the 30 countries we found a minimum of 5 and a maximum of 36 different databases for each indicator."}
